---
layout: post
title: The easy way to install Wordpress Plugins
---

!(wordpress plugins)[http://cdn.wpfixit.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/WordPress-Plugins.png]

Here are the steps to installing a Wordpress Plugin

1. Go to Plugins > Add New.

2. Under Search, type in the name of the WordPress Plugin or descriptive keyword, author, or tag in the search form or click a tag link below the search form.

3. Find the WordPress Plugin you wish to install.
a)Click Details for more information about the Plugin and instructions you may wish to print or save to help setup the Plugin.
b)Click Install Now to install the WordPress Plugin.

4. A popup window will ask you to confirm your wish to install the Plugin.

5. If this is the first time you've installed a WordPress Plugin, you may need to enter the FTP login credential information. If you've installed a Plugin before, it will still have the login information. This information is available through your web server host.

6. Click Proceed to continue with the installation. The resulting installation screen will list the installation as successful or note any problems during the install.

7. If successful, click Activate Plugin to activate it, or Return to Plugin Installer for further actions.
Some WordPress Plugins require more steps to customize them. The Details ReadMe file should contain step-by-step instructions. After installation, this information is available on the Plugins Panel for each Plugin. If you are having problems with a WordPress Plugin, see the Troubleshooting section.

For information on how to install a WordPress Plugin manually, see our manual installation guide below.

Manual Plugin Installation
There are a few cases when manually installing a WordPress Plugin is appropriate.

-If you wish to control the placement and process of installing a WordPress Plugin.
-If your server does not permit automatic installation of a WordPress Plugin.
-The WordPress Plugin is not in the official WordPress Plugin Directory.

Installation of a WordPress Plugin manually requires FTP familiarity and the awareness that you may put your site at risk if you install a WordPress Plugin incompatible with the current version or from an unreliable source.

Backup your site completely before proceeding.

To install a WordPress Plugin manually:

1. Download your WordPress Plugin to your desktop.
2. If downloaded as a zip archive, extract the Plugin folder to your desktop.
3. Read through the "readme" file thoroughly to ensure you follow the installation instructions.
4. With your FTP program, upload the Plugin folder to the wp-content/plugins folder in your WordPress directory online.
5. Go to Plugins screen and find the newly uploaded Plugin in the list.
6. Click Activate Plugin to activate it.
7. Check the Details readme file for customization and further instructions.

With these instructions you'll be able to easily install your plugins :)
